3x12 - Half Measures
Quote
Post
by
bunniefuu
»
06/09/10 17:11
Scene: Walt’s Car
Walter Jr: So if it's okay, I was thinking about using this one for the test. Mom's brakes are very sticky and you barely press down on them and it's like a screech.
Walt: Sure.
Walter Jr: But I'm good?
Walt: Yeah, you're great. Why?
Walter Jr: Are my feet okay? I looked it up. New Mexico says all I need is a note from a doctor. I know it's not the right way and all but once I get my provisional, I can keep working at it.
Walt: Well, as long as it gets you safely from point A to point B then who am I to argue?
Scene: White Residence
Skyler: Hi. You're a sweet girl. Yes, you are. Yes, you are. I know. Here you go. Here you go.
Walt: All right.
Walter Jr: Thank you.
Walt: Got it?
Walter Jr: Yeah.
Walt: Okay. All right.
Walter Jr: So 9 a.m. Saturday?
Walt: Yes, 9 a.m. Saturday.
Walter Jr: So which means pick me up about 8:30?
Walt: I'll be here with bells on.
Walter Jr: What?
Walt: It's just a saying. Don't worry, I won't be wearing bells. Hey.
Walter Jr: Hey, Mom.
Skyler: Hi. Do you have a minute?
Walt: Yeah.
Skyler: Could you keep an eye on your sister?
Walter Jr: Sure.
Skyler: Thanks.
Walter Jr: See you, Dad.
Walt: Bye, son. Hey, good work today.
Walter Jr: Thank you.
Skyler: Have you thought anymore about what we discussed?
Walt: "Thought anymore" meaning reconsidered? No.
Skyler: So show me the flaw in it.
Walt: Flaws, Skyler. Flaws. Plural, not singular. Where do you want me to start?
Skyler: Hey, I don't love this situation, all right, that you put me in. However, let's just stick with what makes sense here. You took the money you won gambling invested it in the car wash you helped run. You hired your wife as a bookkeeper, because she's actually a bookkeeper. That is a story an auditor can believe. What am I missing?
Walt: You should just take this money that I give you and not look too closely at it. So, if God forbid, I get caught you maintain plausible deniability.
Skyler: Okay, my estranged husband who, when he was working made $43,000 a year, starts shoveling money at me. And when the police come, I'm supposed to say: "I never thought about it, officers. Made sense to me.” Really? That, in your mind, is plausible deniability? I tell you what, Walt I'd rather have them think I'm Bonnie what's-her-name than some complete idiot.
Walt: So you're promoting caution here. And you want a believable story. That, it seems to me, is the safest way to make the best out of a very bad situation, yes. But I'm noting a little hole in your plot though. Why would your estranged husband be doing all this for you?
Skyler: Because he loves his family and desperately wants a reconciliation though it may be hopeless and futile. Then again, he'd try anything.
Walt: I'm just not buying it. No, I think it would be better if the husband were no longer estranged. Yeah. Maybe if he were back sleeping in his own bed.
Skyler: And suddenly a fantasy story.
Walt; I am at least gonna be a part of this household. Dinner with the family every night of the week.
Skyler: Not every night, no.
Walt: Six nights a week. One night off.
Skyler: Dinner. Two nights. Not weekends. With 24-hours' notice.
Walt: Five nights a week, with no notice.
Skyler: Three. Six-hours' notice.
Walt: Five nights a week, two hours' notice.
Skyler: Four. Don't push it.
Walt: And I want my own key to the house.
Skyler: No.
Walt: For emergencies and appearances, yes. I am going to babysit my own daughter, help my son with his homework. I am going to be a part of this family. That is how we'll sell your little fiction.
Scene: Lab
Jesse: How about we stop somewhere afterward and get a beer?
Walt: No. Thanks, though. Maybe some other time.
Jesse: Seriously. Get a beer with me.
Scene: Bar
Walt: What? What the hell are you doing?
Jesse: That's ours, right? Look at it and tell me if that's ours.
Walt: Yes, it's ours. Now put it away. What the hell is wrong with you? Where did you get that? Did you take it from the lab?
Jesse: I bought it from the two guys who k*lled Combo. They had Combo shot down in the street and now it's our product they're selling. Which means they work for our guy. Right?
Walt: What? No. What is that? That's hearsay. Do you have any proof?
Jesse: I heard it from the sister of the kid who shot him. Hear how I just said "kid?” This kid, he's 11 years old. Shot Combo on orders. These two scumbags, they got him dealing. They got him. And you know he's not the first. They use kids because hey, why not? Easy to control. Easy to fool. All they get is juvie if they get caught. Hearts and minds, right? Get them young and they're yours forever. These guys k*lled Combo. They used this little kid like some puppet. They used him to sh**t my friend.
Walt: So why are you telling me this?
Jesse: I need your help.
Walt: How?
Jesse: I need ricin.
Walt: Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
Jesse: Look, these two - Hey.
Walt: No.
Jesse: Hey, they gotta go. All right? I got the entire thing figured out.
Walt: No.
Jesse: The delivery method, everything. All I need from you is the poison, that's all.
Walt: No - Look.
Jesse: Otherwise, you don't gotta lift a finger.
Walt: No. You don't know what you're talking about. Not even -
Jesse: Look, you don't get how right this is? You don't get how the whole entire world would be better off?
Walt: We're not talking about this.
Jesse: I know a woman who buys from these two once or twice a week. They sit in their car all day and they get hungry, so she brings them food and they knock a few bucks off her price. There's your delivery system right there. I could be a mile away.
Walt: Jesus. A meth-head you're trusting to do this?
Jesse: Know what? That meth-head stood up to your brother-in-law. He questioned her for five hours. She didn't give it up. Know how you know? Because you're not in prison right now.
Walt: Well, I know I would be in prison after this. Prison or worse. And I'd be right alongside you. No, Jesse, you cannot be serious. This is a ridiculous idea.
Jesse: It's ridiculous? What, so you're saying it's not gonna work? How about back when it was your plan? When we were gonna use it on Tuco.
Walt: Apples and oranges.
Jesse: Guy eats ricin two or three days later he gets the flu or a heart attack and he keels over. That's what you said. Untraceable back to us. To me. Not even that other scumbag we work for is ever gonna figure it out. It was a good plan back when it was Tuco, and it's a good plan now.
Walt: Tuco wanted to m*rder us. These guys don't. Apples and oranges. Do I really have to sit here and explain the difference?
Jesse: Combo was us, man. He was one of us. Does that mean nothing?
Walt: Why didn't you go after these guys two or three months ago?
Jesse: Because I just found out about them.
Walt: What's to find out? It's a dispute over turf, right? I mean, how hard could it have been for you to track them down on their turf and k*ll them months ago? Because back then, you were too busy getting high, feeling sorry. Now, m*rder is not part of your 12-step program. This is not some amends that you have to make. What you are talking about here is pointless. This achieves nothing. It accomplishes nothing.
Jesse: If you don't see what it accomplishes then there's no way I can explain it to you.
Walt: Jesse, listen to me. You are not a m*rder*r. I'm not, and you're not. It's as simple as that. Jesse.
Jesse: I'm doing it. With or without you.
Scene: Hank’s Hospital Room
Marie: Knock, knock.
Hank: Chrissakes, Marie, you don't say "knock, knock," you *knocks* like that.
Marie: I like saying it.
Hank: Well, that's not the rules. Okay?
Marie: You knock your way, I'll knock mine. But look, see? I win.
Walter Jr: Not so fast.
Hank: Christ, again? That's three in a row. Got a fricking Paul Newman over here?
Marie: Have you been playing cards with your dad?
Walter Jr: No. Why?
Hank: How is your old man? Back teaching?
Walter Jr: No. I don't think either of them are working right now.
Hank: How they swinging that?
Walter Jr: I don't know.
Marie: Hey did you know the doctors told your Uncle Hank he can get out of here anytime he wants?
Walter Jr: Oh, yeah? That's great.
Hank: Yeah, I'm not so sure about that.
Marie: Why not? What? That's what they said.
Hank: Because they want the room. They hit the sheets with Lysol, reset the meter and wheel the next slob in. We went over this, Marie. Drop it.
Walter Jr: Are you not well enough?
Hank: Jesus, kid, you too? Do I look well enough? I'm sh1tting in pans, peeing in pitchers. I can't move my legs. Got it?
Walter Jr: So people in wheelchairs should be in hospitals? What about people on crutches? Maybe I should be in here too. Is that what you're trying to say?
Hank: Exactly. Deal, you little prick.
Scene: Saul’s Office
Saul: b*tch. You know I'm hourly, right?
Walt: He promised me that he would be here.
Saul: Oh, he promised. Why didn't you tell me? Let's wait then. That's a joke. The kid ain't coming. Okay, so, what's plan B?
Walt: I don't know. I really don't.
Saul: Well, let's brainstorm. You really think he's serious?
Walt: That's why I'm here, Saul. The way he was talking, he is going to do it. Or try, at least.
Saul: Okay, so we pay him off.
Walt: No, no, it's not about money. It's about getting him off the streets. Getting him to calm down. Maybe… What if we, maybe…Could you get him arrested?
Saul: You want your criminal associate taken into police custody?
Walt: No, now listen. I know it sounds risky. But it wouldn't be anything that would get him into real trouble and nothing that could lead back to our business. Just some minor offense.
Saul: Pinkman in jail? I don't know. I'm picturing it and-
Walt: No, not jail as in "jail" jail. I'm talking about one of those situations where you're in an orange jumpsuit picking up litter along the highway.
Saul: That's jail. You're talking about a level-two joint. Something that keeps him off the street for 30 days.
Walt: Then by the time he gets out tempers have cooled and hopefully we can move on.
Saul: Well, Roswell Correctional's pretty low impact, you know. In the past, I've recommended Springer but I'm hearing chancy things about their bathrooms since they renovated. So…
Walt: So it's possible, right?
Saul: Well, it falls under my Premium Services Package but you can afford that. I'll call my PI.
Scene: Motel Room
Jesse: You understand what you have to do? And you can never talk to anyone, right? I mean, ever. Understand?
Wendy: Yeah.
Jesse: I found this stuff on the Internet. Takes days to kick in. Just keep quiet and this won't ever come back to you. You okay with this, right? Just think of it like it's the same thing as always. You're just delivering some hamburgers.
Wendy: It's not just delivering hamburgers.
Jesse: Hey. You got a kid, right? What's his name?
Wendy: Patrick.
Jesse: All right, imagine these two guys had Patrick working as a mule. Making him k*ll people. Wouldn't you do anything to protect your kid?
Wendy: Of course, I would. I do all kinds of things for him.
Jesse: Okay, so these guys are using kids like that. They gotta go. Right? Good. Tomorrow. I'll be in touch.
Scene: White Residence
Walt: Yeah. I bet that tastes good, huh? Hey. Come here, baby. Okay. Here we go. Here we go. What are you doing? If you need to talk, use the phone.
Mike: This isn't a phone talk, Walter. Your wife's out, right? Isn't she something? I got a granddaughter a few years older.
Walt: What can I do for you?
Mike: Have a seat, Walter. I spoke to Goodman about Pinkman and this plan of yours.
Walt: And?
Mike: I'm not gonna do it.
Walt: Why?
Mike: Because it's moronic.
Walt: Saul said you've done things like this before.
Mike: That's not the moronic part.
Walt: Okay. So, what's the problem?
Mike: The problem is the boss wouldn't like it.
Walt: Saul?
Mike: My boss. Your boss. This is a professional courtesy. No one knows I'm here. Understand? But our employer would find out, like always. And if Pinkman were arrested, he'd take it as a problem. Walt, you got a good thing going here. We all do. You wanna risk it all on one junkie? Now, I realize you two have a history but this kid's been on the bubble a while now. It's a long time coming.
Walt: What is?
Mike: I used to be a beat cop, a long time ago. I'd get called on domestic disputes all the time. Hundreds, probably, over the years. But there was this one guy, this one piece of sh*t that I will never forget. Gordie. He looked like Bo Svenson. You remember him? Walking Tall? You don't remember?
Walt: No.
Mike: Anyway, big boy, 270, 280 but his wife, or whatever she was, his lady was real small. Like a bird. Wrists like little branches. Anyway, my partner and I'd get called out there every weekend and one of us would pull her aside and say: "Come on, tonight's the night we press charges." This wasn't one of those "deep down, he loves me" setups. We got a lot of those, but not this. This girl was scared. She wasn't gonna cross him. No way, no how. Nothing we could do but pass her to the EMT's, put him in a car, drive him downtown, throw him in a drunk t*nk. He sleeps it off, next morning, out he goes. Back home. But one night my partner's out sick, and it's just me. The call comes in and it's the usual crap. “Broke her nose in the shower” kind of thing. So I cuff him, put him in the car and away we go. Only that night we're driving into town and this sideways as*h*le is in my back seat humming "Danny Boy." And it just rubbed me wrong. So instead of left, I go right, out into nowhere. And I kneel him down and I put my revolver in his mouth and I told him, "This is it. This is how it ends." And he's crying, going to the bathroom all over himself. Swearing to God he's gonna leave her alone. Screaming, much as you can with a g*n in your mouth. And I told him to be quiet. That I needed to think about what I was gonna do here. And, of course, he got quiet. Goes still and real quiet. Like a dog waiting for dinner scraps. Then we just stood there for a while. Me, acting like I'm thinking things over and Prince Charming kneeling in the dirt with sh*t in his pants. And after a few minutes, I took the g*n out of his mouth and I say, "So help me, if you ever touch her again I will such and such and such, and blah, blah, blah."
Walt: It was just a warning?
Mike: Of course. Just trying to do the right thing. But two weeks later he k*lled her. Of course. Caved her head in with the base of a Waring blender. We got there, there was so much blood, you could taste the metal. Moral of the story is, I chose a half measure when I should have gone all the way. I'll never make that mistake again. No more half measures, Walter.
Scene: Jesse’s Car
Jesse: Man, I don't get this. I don't get this at all. All I'm seeing is the kid. So where are they?
Wendy: I don't know. They're always around.
Jesse: Burgers are getting cold.
Wendy: So is it, like, fast?
Jesse: Don't sweat it. You're just doing what you do. Hey, nobody's gonna know anything.
Wendy: Can I have another bump?
Jesse: Look, you had your bump. Get this thing done, then you can have all you want.
Mike: Gonna need you to come with me. Take a walk.
Jesse: Where we going?
Scene: Gus’s Chicken Farm
Mike: Sit down.
Gus: I understand that you have a problem with two of my employees. It is true that they k*lled one of your associates. It is possible they acted rashly. But, on the other hand, there was provocation. The man was selling on their territory. There is blame on both sides. This will go no further. It will be settled right here, right now.
Jesse: You told him?
Gus: Wait outside. Listen to me. You have one friend in this room. This man. Those men outside are my trusted employees. And when I learned what you intended to do…If it wasn't for this man and the respect I have for him I would be dealing with this in a very different way. You don't look at him. You look at me. This is what happens now. My men will come back inside and you will shake their hands and you will make peace. And that will be the end of this.
Jesse: No.
Walt: Jesse.
Gus: Pardon me?
Jesse: They use kids. These assholes got an 11 -year-old kid doing their k*lling for them. You're supposed to be some kind of a reasonable businessman. This how you do business? You okay with this? You got anything to say here?
Gus: Bring them back. No more children. Understand? And you, you keep the peace. Say it.
Jesse: Yeah. I'll keep the peace.
Gus: Shake hands.
Scene: Walt’s Car
Walt: Jesse, your actions, they affect other people. Sometimes compromises have to be made for the best of reasons. Jesse. Jesse!
Scene: Hank’s Hospital Room
Hank: Marie, let the people who get paid to do this do this.
Marie: The people who get paid to do this do a lousy job. So I guess this is what you want, huh? Just lying in a hospital bed getting sponge baths from nurses.
Hank: Marie.
Marie: It's time to go home, Hank.
Hank: How many times I gotta tell you, Marie? Not till I'm well. Hey, hey, hey. What are you doing?
Marie: I'm just seeing.
Hank: Seeing what?
Marie: Seeing what I see.
Hank: I'm not at my best here, Marie.
Marie: We'll see.
Hank: Nothing's gonna happen.
Marie: I say it will.
Hank: No. I'm in this bed for a reason. It's a waste of time. Besides, what if someone comes in?
Marie: I don't care if someone walks in.
Hank: What's wrong with you?
Marie: I'll tell you what. If I can get the groundhog to see his shadow…
Hank: Not gonna happen. I'm sorry.
Marie: I'm betting it will. And if he does, you check out of here.
Hank: I'm not gonna bet on whether I can get a boner. No bet. There's no bet here. No bet.
Marie: Afraid you'll lose?
Hank: You know, you're just- You're just being foolish, you know? Come on. What's the point?
Marie: The point is you're not completely hopeless. We have a bet?
Hank: You know what? If it'll get you out of here quicker. You got one minute.
Marie: One minute?
Hank: Yeah.
Marie: All right. That's a cakewalk.
Hank: You know, this is just… This is just sad. I mean I really feel sorry for you, Marie, you know? I really do. It's just - It's pathetic.
Marie: That's good, keep talking. Protest. Struggle.
Hank: Marie, give up. I mean, seriously, it's not gonna happen.
Scene: Andrea’s House
Andrea: Bad day?
Jesse: I don't even know. Anyway it's better now. Tell them you're busy.
Andrea: Hello? Grandma? Slow down. Slow down, I can't- Oh, God. Oh, God. Oh, God.
Scene: Park
Andrea: Tomas! No. You have to let me in. Please.
Scene: Lab
Jesse: Hey, it's me. Wait for the thing.
Walt: Jesse, you are now 42 minutes late. I'm starting without you.
Scene: White Residence
TV: What is "wasabi"? Wasabi. Right you are. Four-letter word, 1200. Pilots and musicians know this word derives from-
Skyler: Dinner's almost ready, okay?
Walter Jr: Okay.
TV: What is "solo"?
Walter Jr: This guy's good.
Tv: Four letter word, 2000. "A loud, harsh cry; Walt Whitman's was barbaric-“
Walter Jr: Yell.
Walt: What is "yawp"?
Tv: Kevin. What is "yawp"? Yawp. Tokyo, 1200. This crustacean-
Walter Jr: What the heck's a yawp?
Walt: A yawp is a yell. I'll be right back.
Walter Jr: That's what I said.
Walt: Okay to use your bathroom, right?
Skyler: Yeah, okay.
Jesse: Hey, it's me. Wait for the thing. Hey, it's me. Wait for the thing.
Walt: Look, I hope you're not waiting for an apology because I did not rat you out. I was looking out for your best interests, as well as my own. And I stand by my decision so we'll just have to agree to disagree. Anyway, just call me back.
Skyler: So the TV turns itself off, huh?
Walter Jr: Yeah.
Walt: I'll get it.
TV: The beginning of an early cold snap. But first, more details on-
Walt: Where's the remote?
TV: The m*rder of a young boy in the South Valley. Police have yet to release a statement but sources indicate that 11-year-old Tomas Cantillo may have been the victim of a g*ng-related execution. An anonymous tip brought police to a playground in the 4700 block of Eighth Avenue late last night. Paramedics were called to the scene but were unable to revive the boy. A gruesome crime-
Skyler: Can you turn that off?
TV: Yet another casualty in what appears to be the city's ongoing struggle-
Skyler: Walt?
TV: -against dr*gs and the gangs that peddle them. We'll be passing-
Skyler: I'm sorry, it's just they've been talking about that all day, and it's just…
Walt: No. Yeah.
Skyler: Hey, did you know your Dad and I are thinking about starting a business together?
Walt Jr: Seriously? What kind of business?
Skyler: We're thinking maybe a car wash.
Walter Jr: What do you mean? Like the-
Walt: I'm sorry, I have to go.
Scene: Street Corner
Jesse: Oh, my God.
Walt: Run.